---
title: "Crypto Weekly 04-04-2021"
date: "04-04-2021"
longdate: "Apr 04, 2021"
---

**PRICE CHANGE: WTD/YTD**

\- **BTC** ($58,590): +4% / +102%  
\- **ETH** ($2,087): +22% / +183%  
\- **XRP** ($0.62): +12% / +181%  
\- **UNI** ($31): +9% / +530%  
\- **Crypto Market Cap** ($1.9T): +10% / +153%   
\- **BTC Dominance**: 56%  


**STABLECOIN MARKET CAP CHANGE: WTD/YTD**

\- **Tether** ($42B): +5% / +103%  
\- **USDC** ($10.8B): 0% / +178%



---

**THIS WEEK IN CRYPTO**

\- Coinbase is going public via direct listing and will begin trading on the Nasdaq on April 14, 2021 under the ticker "COIN". [Link](https://blog.coinbase.com/coinbase-announces-effectiveness-of-registration-statement-and-anticipated-listing-date-of-its-1509b281f760).   
  
\- Visa announced it can now settle transactions on its network using USDC. Crypto.com is the first company to test the new capability with its own Visa-branded cards. Visa's announcement means that partners can send the USDC stablecoin directly to Visa, without having to convert the USDC tokens to USD first. Visa is using Anchorage as its custodian. [Link](https://techcrunch.com/2021/03/29/visa-supports-transaction-settlement-with-usdc-stablecoin/).   
  
\- The IRS is checking whether customers of crypto payments company Circle filed their taxes correctly. Specifically, it's going after customers who traded at least $20,000 in crypto from 2016 through 2020. The DOJ didn't say whether the court ruling would affect users of USD Coin (USDC), one of the most popular stablecoins that Circle launched together with Coinbase in 2018. [Link](https://decrypt.co/63770/the-irs-is-hunting-for-tax-dodging-customers-of-circle).   
  
\- Bitcoin miners earned $1.5 billion in bitcoin rewards and fees last month. The price increase in bitcoin is expected to increase the hashrate required, as miners are dedicating a lot of resources towards mining blocks. [Link](https://news.bitcoin.com/bitcoin-mining-difficulty-sets-new-records-btc-miners-capture-1-5-billion-in-revenue-last-month/).   
  
\- Uniswap is upgrading to Uniswap v3 on May 5, with expected deployment of Optimism for scaling shortly after. Uniswap v3 allows for concentrated liquidity and multiple fee tiers. The tiered fee structure balances the compensation Liquidity Providers receive for various degrees of risk. V3 will have three fee tiers per pair -- 0.05%, 0.03% and 1.00%. Current trades are all being charged 0.03% fee for trading. [Link](https://upnewsinfo.com/2021/04/01/defis-most-anticipated-dex-upgrade-by-btc-peers/).   
  
\- Yearn announced a new product, Coordinape, which allows DAOs to autonomously allocate funds and reward contributors. This is Yearn's first attempt at solving payroll for a decentralized organization. Originally Yearn was paying salaries based on the number of monthly contributions to the platform, but this didn't scale well. This new approach allows members to select the team members they've been interacting with during the past month and allocate points to them based on a stash they are given. These points can be used to claim grant funds. [Link](https://decrypt.co/63664/yearn-finance-creator-introduces-dao-payroll-system).   
  
\- Secondary markets for NFTs are growing faster than primary markets, but secondary trading is concentrated in the top 1% of artists. In March, the secondary market on SuperRare accounted for 36% of its NFT sales volume. [Link](https://decrypt.co/63678/nfts-are-selling-millions-reselling).   
  
\- Snoop Dogg is launching an NFT collection on Crypto.com. Crypto.com has over 10 million users worldwide. [Link](https://dappradar.com/blog/snoop-dogg-announces-nft-collection-with-crypto-com).   
  
\- Apple Music veteran Parker Todd Brooks is joining Ledger to head its NFT division. Ledger is expanding its support for the storage, display, management and security of NFTs. [Link](https://cointelegraph.com/news/former-apple-music-exec-joins-crypto-firm-ledger-as-head-of-nft-division).   
  
\- The Weeknd minted his first NFT collection, raising almost $2.3 million in sales. The collection featured previously unreleased music, and was put together in collaboration with visual artist Strange Loop. The pieces were sold through Nifty Gateway. [Link](https://cryptobriefing.com/the-weeknd-raises-over-2-million-in-first-nft-auction/).   
  
\- Thailand will begin testing a central bank digital currency by Q2 2022. [Link](https://ambcrypto.com/thailands-central-bank-announces-cbdc-testing-plans-for-q2-2022/).